README.md, before:

# markdown-doctest
Test all the code in your markdown docs!

Why on earth?
---

Well, I don't know about you, but I write a lot of code examples in markdown. Some projects write all their documentation as markdown, like [RxJS](https://github.com/Reactive-Extensions/RxJS).

I also don't always stop to make sure that the code I write in my documentation *actually works*.

That seems like an important step, but it's very easy to forget, especially when I'm just making a small change to somebody else's docs.

Okay, but it's not like you can just automatically run the code.
---

Well, with `markdown-doctest`, you can!

Just `npm install markdown-doctest` and run `find . -name '*.md' | markdown-doctest`. It will run all of the Javascript code examples tucked away in your markdown, and let you know if any blow up.

Let's try it on this repo!

```js
var a = 5;

var b = 10;

console.log(a + c);
```

There's a problem with that example. `markdown-doctest` finds it for us:

```bash
$ find . -name '*.md' | markdown-doctest
Failed - README.md:27:17
ReferenceError: c is not defined

1/2 passing
```

Awesome! No excuse for broken documentation ever again right?

Aren't there tons of problems with that approach?
---

Why yes! Yes, there are. Here are some of the things that can go wrong:

 * Examples often assume they have access to variables or modules that aren't actually there
 * Some examples mix code and pseudo code, which results in syntax errors!
 * Examples might run just fine while producing the wrong result. `markdown-doctest` won't even blink

`markdown-doctest` doesn't actually attempt to provide any guarantee that your code worked, only that it didn't explode in a horrible fashion. If you would like to use `markdown-doctest` for that purpose, you can add some `assert`s to your examples.

So why would you use `markdown-doctest`?
---

Because even though all of that can go wrong, it's still nice to know that your examples have no syntax errors and can be run by users.

`markdown-doctest` is not a replacement for your test suite. It's designed to run with your CI build and give you peace of mind that all of your examples are at least vaguely runnable.

You can `require` any needed modules or example helpers in `.markdown-doctest-setup.js`. E.g:

```js
module.exports = {
  Rx: require('rx')
}
```

Anything exported by `.markdown-doctest-setup` will be available in all examples run.

I plan on adding features to mitigate the above problems, including the ability to disable testing examples that aren't actually runnable!

Currently, `markdown-doctest` only supports javascript, and you have to make sure you write your examples like this:


    ```js
    console.log("Hello world");
    ```


Note the `js` after the three backticks. That's what's used to find examples to run (and by Github to determine syntax highlighting). It looks like this:

```js
console.log("Hello world");
```

Commit message:

Make the readme far better
Delete most of it

README.md, after:

# markdown-doctest
Test all the code in your markdown docs!

Why on earth?
---

As an open source developer, there are few things more embarassing than a user opening an issue to inform you that your README example is broken! With  `markdown-doctest`, you can rest easy knowing that your example code is *actually runnable*.

Just `npm install markdown-doctest` and run `find . -name '*.md' | markdown-doctest`. It will run all of the Javascript code examples tucked away in your markdown, and let you know if any blow up.

Okay, how do I use it?
---

Let's try it on this repo!

```js
var a = 5;

var b = 10;

console.log(a + c);
```

There's a problem with that example. `markdown-doctest` finds it for us:

```bash
$ find . -name '*.md' | markdown-doctest
Failed - README.md:27:17
ReferenceError: c is not defined

1/2 passing
```

Awesome! No excuse for broken documentation ever again right?

Note: `markdown-doctest` doesn't actually attempt to provide any guarantee that your code worked, only that it didn't explode in a horrible fashion. If you would like to use `markdown-doctest` for actually testing the correctness of your code, you can add some `assert`s to your examples.


`markdown-doctest` is not a replacement for your test suite. It's designed to run with your CI build and give you peace of mind that all of your examples are at least vaguely runnable.

Set up logic
---

You can `require` any needed modules or example helpers in `.markdown-doctest-setup.js`. E.g:

```js
module.exports = {
  Rx: require('rx')
}
```

Anything exported by `.markdown-doctest-setup` will be available globally in your examples.

Limitations
---

I plan on adding the ability to disable testing examples that aren't actually runnable!

Currently, `markdown-doctest` only supports javascript, and you have to make sure you write your examples like this:


    ```js
    console.log("Hello world");
    ```


Note the `js` after the three backticks. That's what's used to find examples to run (and by Github to determine syntax highlighting). It looks like this:

```js
console.log("Hello world");
```
